people use
economic political terminology without
really stopping
to think seriously about what these
things mean
i've seen another youtuber vegan foot
soldier
referring to what happened in chiang mai
thailand as a kind of ponzi scheme
or he reports that some of the viewers
of his channel have said to him that he
remembers
what happened with freelee durianrider
the short-lived vogue for vegan activism
in northern thailand and chiang mai
he remembers it with rose-colored
glasses his audience complains and they
suggest to him that instead
the whole thing was something like a
ponzi scheme
i'd suggest here a very different
economic concept
the idea of a gold rush and a gold rush
mentality
a ponzi scheme is a scam if
people are involved in a ponzi scheme
they're selling something that isn't
real
they're selling coupons or tickets that
have no real value they're offering you
an investment in a gold mine that isn't
actually producing gold or the gold mine
doesn't even
exist right a ponzi scheme is just
moving around people's money
to create the illusion of an investment
opportunity
when in fact there's no opportunity at
all a gold rush is something very
different
right a gold rush means that some people
are getting rich a few people are
getting rich
and that mass hysteria mass optimism is
inspired
by the success of those people however
few they are
in number so it's irrational and it
normally leads to a disaster
the gold rush mentality but it's
nevertheless something real
rather than something unreal
maddie limberner bought herself an
airplane ticket
to chiang mai thailand she went to
this festival this great meeting of the
mines
organized by durianrider and philly she
met the great master she met
durianrider and freely she got their
blessing she got their training
she got their advice
and she never had to work a regular job
again in her life
maddie lindbergh not not a terribly good
looking girl
sorry if you took it look at any any
photograph of her face
it doesn't have perfect kind of lighting
and makeup whatever
i do not think that when maddie
limberner was going through high school
to my knowledge she never went to
university but if she went to university
i don't think anyone was raving about
her and telling her that she could be a
model that she could be a movie star
you know she's a normal looking woman
and there were a whole lot of young
women
who saw the success of maddie limbrenner
and thought me too
they thought that they also would like
to never work
a regular job again like they also would
like to have this
combination of money fame
power respect sex that seemed
so tantalizingly close and seems so
attainable
for someone who is in every conceivable
way
mediocre maddie limber not not
a pretty face not a great athlete
didn't compete at the olympics didn't
train for any sport
ever right
and she had meteoric success after going
to chain my town
how many people never had that success
how many people were failures we'll
never know
we'll never have the count this is the
phenomenon of the gold rush
mentality if it can happen to her why
couldn't it happen to me too
i could be next right if one person if
two people
if ten people can get rich off of this
gold rush
why not all of us why not a hundred
people why not a thousand people
this is the danger of irrepressible
human optimism right when any detached
observer can sit back and say
look not every actor
can get a stirring role in a disney
movie
it's not going to happen it's going to
happen for one person it's going to
happen for two people
maybe 10 right we're never going to have
a situation in which 100 people a
thousand people
everyone in which there's an opportunity
for everyone to have the kind of
money fame power respect sex
of getting a lead role in a disney movie
and there were other young women there
were other young women who were
better looking than maddie lynn burner
there were other young women who were
more talented
more funny more intelligent more
interesting more entertaining there were
other young women who were more athletic
who maybe actually had one some
competitive sport at some point there
were other young women who knew more
about
diet or weight loss or exercise
something else to offer but they weren't
successful right we all know
just what kind of strange lottery fame
is on the internet now
vegan foot soldier is a very wealthy man
he talks about this pretty openly on his
youtube channel i've seen him openly
refer to it
on the internet innumerable times he
doesn't like to specify
what his business background is to what
extent his money comes from the stock
market
or computer programming or something in
between that involves them both
he's a very wealthy man he doesn't worry
about money
he doesn't think about money and broadly
speaking in british culture
there's a tremendous taboo about and
against
really being honest about money
give a little example of this where he
and i had a perfectly friendly
interaction he made a video many years
ago
about a particular woman uh who was here
on youtube she was a youtuber
who went crazy and got a gun
and tried to kill people at youtube
headquarters so she was an attempted
mass murderer attempted mass shooter
right
some of you will remember that i don't
remember her name because it was a very
hard to spell
hard to pronounce name uh
but foot soldier made a video giving his
analysis
or his perspective on it and at about
the same time i forget it was 24 hours
later or 40 hours out later but quite
quite soon after he made his video i
made a video giving an analysis of the
problem
that was completely different and you
know why money
because i said you know what this woman
went crazy you know why she wanted
revenge on youtube you know what the
conflict was
money and here's why and i broke it down
and presented the fact that was what she
was upset about
she had a number of very successful
videos that she was only paid a few
pennies for
and it didn't make any sense she had
hundreds of thousands of views and this
is even before the current
system of demonetization was really
formalized but
youtube's always been very opaque about
that how is it some people get rich and
some people get successful
and some people if your video is
successful you don't get a dime
someone else gets paid very well for a
video that has fewer views than you've
got
it was a conflict about money and i will
give
credit to foot soldier he sent me an
email or a couple of emails
saying you know you're right and he just
said he didn't know why he didn't see it
then why why didn't you think about he
said really you're right
the big issue was money and he felt that
he had been blind to it okay
foot soldier is a very strange guy i've
known him for years i tried to talk to
him constructively and positively for
years
even though he was incredibly abusive
incredibly disrespectful incredibly
defamatory incredibly damaging towards
me
for years publicly and privately this
guy
said hurtful and heartbreaking things to
me and about me
four years completely unprovoked i can
give some examples just to spice up this
video
i'm not bent out of shape about it but i
mean foot soldier
he is one of the worst people i've ever
had to deal with on the internet
and i can say this honestly foot soldier
from my perspective in my opinion you're
worse than durianrider
alright and i can tell you why today
i can send an email to durianrider and
he will give me a very respectful
and appreciative reply today durianrider
learned his lesson i was honest and on
the level
with durianrider for years i never lied
to him i never manipulated him
i proved to him that i was a person of
substance
and personal integrity and eventually
terrain writer accepted that and he
completely changed his attitude
toward me and he now talks to me with
real respect
you know that's who dorian ryder is to
me today i mean if there was some reason
i do get reply to him whenever something
comes up
that i write to him about and if i asked
him to take down a video off of his
channel he would do it for me he's he's
done it he's volunteered to do in the
past
he took down videos that were denouncing
at a family okay
so it was possible to get through
to deering writer it was possible to
earn his respect
and get him to treat me with dignity and
to recognize that i was a person of
integrity and that i was being honest on
the level
okay with foot soldier it's
impossible no matter how hard you try
for how many years foot soldier would
continue
to say that i was someone who was
delusional lying
and manipulative no matter how honest i
was being
and no matter how thoroughly i could
prove that i was being honest
because most of the stuff i was
allegedly lying about it's like dude
here's the exact email or here's the
exact screenshot or here's the video
like
the three minute mark here's where i
said that no i could prove that i was
being on level
and foot soldier is someone who could
never be on the level back so foot
soldier
you now are taking a moment to look back
at the rise and fall of the chiang mai
scene in the history of the vegan
movement in the last five years
and you are asking the question what
went wrong
or what was wrong with the vegan
movement of chiang mai foot soldier
the answer is you
the answer is people like you foot
soldier
but you personally
were the worst of the worst
okay the problem with the scene in
chiang mai
was people with absolutely no
moral integrity stabbing each other in
the back
over nothing
for no reason with nothing to gain
tearing each other down and you did that
to me
and joe best did that to me
again and again and again
when what i showed you in return and
sometimes what i showed you
first i talked to joe best for at least
a year
before he attacked me right when what
i'd shown him before that happened
and after and in your before and after
right
was really a lot of kindness was really
a lot of consideration i really made an
effort
to treat you with respect and dignity
and deal with your questions on the
level
all right man to man however you want to
put it okay
that's what was wrong with the chiang
mai scene that's what was wrong
with veganism in that epoch
in that era okay i do not
blame for one moment the people that you
foot soldier are now referring to as as
being to some extent in a ponzi scheme
right i know it's your audience and you
answered that you don't see it as a
punishment
but i do not see the money motive
as being the problem in chiang mai
whether you call that a ponzi scheme
or a gold rush the idea that people were
trying to make money
okay i'm just gonna pause for a moment
shout out to everyone in the audience
we're doing this as a live stream
if i'm not gonna edit it afterwards it's
neither more nor less effort for me to
do this as a live stream rather than a
pre-recorded video
i've done more than 2000 videos on
youtube we have 22 people in the
audience this was totally unannounced
totally you know so it's nice 20 people
have you online
guys we only have four thumbs up we are
talking about what went terribly wrong
with veganism in the last five years and
the unique
locus of chiang mai thailand which
involves durianrider
freely and my old adversary vegan foot
soldier and a number of other
unforgettable personalities
guys we've got 24 people in the audience
uh if you don't want to give it a thumbs
up
if you want to wait to work 20 minutes
in the video do so you can
but if you give it a thumbs up now more
people will see the live stream
more people have the chance to join
while it's still ongoing so it is kind
of nice to get that
uh inertia going in your favor where
youtube sees oh there are 22 people in
the audience we got 22 thumbs up
so more people may be invited okay so
guys i can reply to
you know uh comments in the audience the
fluffy child before asked the great
question
why do you disable your comments what a
fascinating question
do do you think this is a question of
answer before
do you think this is a question that i
have answered in the description to like
1 000 of my videos where it says it says
in the description i'll quote this for
you directly
why are comments disabled below my
videos there i've said that you'll find
that exact statement with that exact
link minimum videos and that leads to a
video
that gives you the answer okay guys and
i'll just say
just to allude to the kind of the video
this relates to what i'm saying about
durianrider what i'm saying about
vegan foot soldier what we could say
about freelee and vegan cheetah and many
of these other person asking
okay guys it's not worthwhile
for you to try to herd cats right to try
to hurt
something that cannot be heard to manage
and read and respond to an anonymous
comment section
from hundreds of people it's really
worthwhile and it's really
meaningful to take the time to reach out
to one person and say hey you're worth
it i'm going to spend a couple hours
talking to you
you know you can spend many many hours
managing conversations
and guys veganfoot soldier is someone i
put
many hours into reaching out to and
talking to you
even though he is sub
human garbage okay i
utterly morally and intellectually
despise this person and i can quote you
my emails where i made a huge effort
to be civil and friendly and
constructive
why yeah partly because i care about the
future of the vegan movement and partly
because it's not a test
of his integrity it's not a test of his
moral character
it's a test of mine how good i can be to
somebody
even when they don't deserve that that's
a test of my
moral character okay and he's not the
only one there are so many people
there are so many people who are
specifically white people in thailand
let's be real they were specifically
people linked
to this toxic chiang mai scene where i
put in the effort i can still speak the
thai language
i speak it with a heavy lotion accent i
used to live in laos in thailand
i knew a lot and i cared a lot about the
politics
in laos and thailand but including
thailand especially chiang mai
it's somewhere i lived somewhere i'd
visit somewhere it's somewhere i still
to this day talk about
maybe i'm going to end up living there
permanently it's a place i care about
and have a connection to i wasn't just
passing through as a tourist and when i
was there by the way there might be some
people in the audience now
there are other vegans white european
vegans
who met me in thailand and saw me
speaking thai
saw me relating to those people and how
i care about those people
i have a connection to that place of my
own that's different from
and deeper than anything vegan foot
soldier has going for him or
durianrider i still care and you know
i care about the future of thailand and
their transition to democracy
and their transition back and forth to
military dictatorship and i was always
raising those questions when we talked
about this issue
um what went wrong in chiang mai the
past present and future of the vegan
movement and how it is linked
to thailand again and again again and
let me just say briefly
um
why does thailand matter
at one point i was talking to about five
other vegan activists
and trying to plan a conference
a meet-up and we went through all these
options they included like new york
i think london was on the list no berlin
london was not but we talked okay we
could do this in new york we do this in
berlin
you know do it here could do it there
and the only place that made sense was
thailand
it costs so much money for people to fly
to new york city and stay in a hotel
in new york even if you are from
texas like whether you're flying from
europe or just also the united states
to try to have a conference in new york
is so expensive
that you are better off for the
americans for the australians and for
the europeans meeting in thailand
so this may not make sense to you
geographically but it makes sense
economically
if i want to have to invent still to
this day 2021
if i want to organize an event and i
want to invite a few people from europe
a few people from
the west coast of america a few people
from east coast america a few people
from australia and new zealand
and we're all going to meet somewhere
and have an event talk about veganism
being politics
actually thailand still to this day it's
one of the only options we've got it's
one of the
places it's one of the only and it's one
of the best and when you add it up
dollar for dollar
how much you're going to spend on the
airplane how much you're going to spend
on on hotels
so on and so forth okay all right
um okay
so i said before in the main point i
want to make this video is
gold rush the gold rush mentality
slightly different from a ponzi scheme
something different from a scam
something different from a swindle so
lydia is here
she's remembering 2016. so lydia as i
recall
in 2016 you were in university getting a
degree
in chemistry
now i forget if that was your master's
degree or your ba
it did not occur to you lydia to drop
out
of university and fly to thailand
to join this gold rush okay i met
i spoke to and i even interviewed for my
channel
many young women and young men
who dropped out of university or dropped
out of high school
to go to chiang mai to pursue this
opportunity
okay it was for them
a financial opportunity they were making
sacrifices for this is something foot
soldier is blind to
it's not a scam it's not a ponzi scheme
but it was a gold rush
there were a small number of people who
were successful people thought oh
look at tess begg tess begg met up with
durianrider and philly and got their
blessing
look at bonnie rebecca bonnie rebecca
met up with philly dreamwork did a
collab and did some videos together
god there was now she now she never has
to work a normal job again in her life
right there was this gold rush i the
idea
that you could be the next test bag that
you could be the next
bunny rebecca now i'll digress here just
for a moment to say
what do you think tess begs financial
situation is
today i think it's a tragedy and i was
already saying that at that time
okay i said two tests beg
and to the audience and and when we
listening don't do this
don't drop out of high school you will
ruin the rest of your life
even if you are cursed with short-term
success
that's exactly what abner so the last
time i looked her channel
she maybe got 7 000 views on a video
and she only was putting up one video in
three months
so let me tell you something 7000 views
pays nothing
nothing now if you're uploading a video
every single day that has 7000 views it
adds up to a little bit this is still
not something you can live on this is
not a career at 7000 it's not
but she's doing a video of how to take
fried chickpeas and add them to a sweet
potato
it smells boring crap about oh yeah
that's a great
yeah it's a sweet potato with chickpeas
and she's getting
7000 views she is
stripping down and showing off 95
of her body on instagram for those 7 000
views
right and this combination of
chickpeas and sweet potatoes and tits
and ass won't pay her rent
and she can never go back she can never
go back to high school
she can never go back to college she can
never become that person she might have
been
and you can never put this the genie
back in the bottle you can never have
your privacy back you can never have
your dignity back
you will always be the person who
pursued
a career of vegan recipes
and soft core porn on the internet
starting as a teenager that is going to
be like a tattoo
you wear emblazoned on your face for the
rest of your life
by the way guys another brilliant
question here i am not saying that i'm
perfect
i made all kinds of decisions i regret
in my life or all kinds of things i made
and i have to wear them
as a tattoo first when i show people my
resume this is pathetic but it's true
it's like oh
you did humanitarian work in cambodia
you're a bad person
people really look at it that way people
think oh oh there's some
cambodia what what kind of person goes
to do humanitarian work in cambodia like
seriously i deal with it all the time
all right
but i'm not ashamed of what i do with my
i'm not ashamed that i went to cambodia
and did this humanitarian work and i
pursued this
i'm not ashamed of my successes and i'm
not ashamed of my failures
i can say this straight up test [ __ ] my
failure
is better than your success okay what
you dropped at a high school to do
was not worth doing compared to high
school she didn't drop in high school to
do humanitarian work she didn't you know
there were wonderful things you could
drop out of high school to do
to quote myself you know one of the
statements i made and talking about the
ethics of this
just short-term and long-term
implications for your life is
there is a difference between becoming a
stripper
to pay your way through college and
dropping out of college
to become a stripper
now i've talked about gold rush
mentality
i've talked about people ruining their
lives
i'm like from test back from my
perspective she's ruined her life okay
i think everyone say this what if test
bag were getting 70 000 views a month
instead of 7 000. i would still say
she's running her life okay because i
think she's traded a meaningful life for
a meaningless one
i think there's a life worth living out
there and it's going to start with
someone like tess begg
sitting down and hitting the books and
really developing their intellectual
acumen
really working hard to become a person
of substance
right not a person who poses with her
ass hanging out of her
thong bikini bottoms and who presents
you she hasn't even been to [ __ ]
cuisine school
i'm sorry but the food is also not worth
cooking it's not worthy i'm sorry
this is also not elite level cuisine
sweet potato with chickpeas
the only thing i can say in favor of her
sweet potato with [ __ ] chickpeas is
that it resembles a vagina
that's what that's what it looks like
okay
has artistic merit on that level but
doesn't
really hold up as cuisine okay this is
not cordon
bleu
go to court on blood learn learn to make
food that really resembles a vagina okay
[Laughter]
um
what if she were getting seventy
thousand dollars instead of part of me
what's your
good way to put it what if she were
getting seventy thousand views instead
of seven thousand views it would still
be the wrong decision it would still be
the wrong decision for her but what is
the cause and effect relationship
between someone like her and durianrider
someone like her and freely
someone like her and what happened in
chiang mai it's very direct
okay i knew another guy and i've
actually spoken to him on this youtube
channel he's interviewed me on this
youtube channel he was someone we like
spoke to at length
collaborated with for a couple years i
knew another guy who was a moderately
successful youtuber himself
so he had money coming in from youtube
and he knew how little
the money was like he knew when you have
a video with only two thousand views
when you have a video with twenty
thousand views
with two hundred thousand it's really a
lot less money than people think of it
he'd had some
success on youtube and he had a
girlfriend
and sorry so i was friends with him i
was never friends with his girlfriend
his girlfriend was what you would call
stumpy and plain looking she is just not
someone for whom doors are gonna open
if you show up at a an audition in los
angeles to appear in a soap commercial
or a shampoo commercial or to be the
leading actress in the next hill park
okay
we all got problems in life okay we all
got advantage of this man this girl
was stumpy and plain he loves her she
loves him that's great
i'm all for it guys if you find a stumpy
woman
but she's a real intellectual substance
make it work you know what i'm saying i
am totally capable
of being in love with and being married
to a woman i consider ugly
if she has those other things going for
intellectually ethically morally
okay but what we're talking about here
is shallow
because we're talking about money fame
power respect sex so this guy like i say
he's a vegan and he's a moderately
successful youtuber
and he was someone just to get just give
a little bit more of the emotional
context to this
he was really close to durianrider
and he went through the process of
realizing how bad and evil and wrong
what durianrider was doing and the
extent to which germaine writer was
lying to him to his face
so he was talking to me saying like look
man you know he's a friend of
durianriders but he now realizes what
the situation is and
you know so you know copacetic you know
it's well-intentioned
but you know he didn't he wasn't someone
who came out and publicly condemned
durianrider but he wanted to talk to me
and get on bait he was figuring out what
was true what was a lie
and you know he was kind of putting his
he was
putting his own conscience to rest he
was trying to feel better about himself
by talking to me because he knew
he'd been involved in some of this more
darkness so this guy
meets durianrider face to face they've
met many many times
but he meets him with his girlfriend and
durianrider is taking his girlfriend
aside
and saying to her passion and convict
saying to her
baby you're never gonna have to work
another day in your life again
as soon as you get on youtube and you
follow these six easy steps
the money's gonna be rolling in here's
how you make it happen you know
and he's saying hey i'm the man who made
freely famous and i'm the man who made
bonnie rebecca
and all these high carb hannah i'm the
man who made all these people into a
start and if you work with me
you're going to be there it's going to
be great here's what you need to do one
two three it's so easy
then you're gonna have so much money and
so much fame and you're never gonna have
to work
a job you have and it's
and you know
okay if i worked in stand-up comedy
i would never talk to comedians this way
i would never
tell a comedian you're so funny
that you can just go ahead and leave all
your furniture behind
and move to new york city and start
doing comedy gigs stand-up comedy and
that that's it you're never gonna have
to work that's it
it's a sure thing like even if i
personally thought this person was
hilarious
i would never say that i would say look
it's a terrible risk
a large percentage of people it ruins
their lives making taking that risk
taking that gap okay
people were moving to chiang mai with
that same spirit with that same gold
rush
mentality that they would be a star that
they would never have to work another
day in their lives right and they were
being told
directly and passionately sure sometimes
by email
but often face to face by durianrider
you are going to be a star you are never
going to have to work
another day in your life and here's
here's how it works
i'm going to tell you the secrets that
changed my life that changed freely's
life
that changed maddie lindberner's life
now known as mad fit
to change these people's lives forever
anybody can do it
and it's going to happen to you because
you're special
so many young women want to hear that
they're special
so many you know
wasn't a ponzi scheme it wasn't
a scam but when someone like
foot soldier went there he was blind to
this
because foot soldier is already a very
wealthy man
i am assuming based on what he has said
publicly i assume he is a
multi-millionaire
he is never going to worry about money
again he's never going to worry about
working in
and he is also someone who is obsessed
with maintaining the secrecy of his face
his name
his identity he both doesn't want money
and doesn't want fame and he is part of
this british culture i've alluded to
earlier
of just not letting yourself think about
money you know and that's why he was so
wrong
in his analysis of that video of the
mass murderer the attempted mass
murderer the youtube
headquarters shooter and he just didn't
think about
the financial motive at all okay i've
got to tell you something there was a
lot of evil
in chiang mai town there was a lot of
evil in the whole vegan scene in those
years
2015 16 17 18. you know
i don't think that's evil i don't think
it's evil to want to be adored
i don't think it's evil to want to be
famous you know what i mean
i don't think that those people who made
this investment
most of these people this includes this
includes maddie lindberner maddie
limberger
literally saved up her money from
working as a waitress
and working behind the the counter as a
clerk in a store like she had that kind
of job
she saved up her money from doing that
for however many years
to go on long-term vacation in town
that's what most of them did
you know most of these were young women
and young men
who had you know many of them hadn't
been to college yet or they were
dropping out of college as pensions a
huge
factor of this right and they had saved
up a few thousand dollars from some
jojoba and they went to live in thailand
for three months
six months two years i met and spoke to
people
people have been there for years in
pursuit of this dream
and a lot of them were already
slender attractive people male or female
some of them some of them
were fat and hoping that they would have
the body transformation story
to be part of this rise to fact it makes
it all quite more better so guys it's
great we have 42 people in the audience
they're only 17 thumbs up if you can
take the time
worth half an hour into this now hit the
thumbs up button because it'll help
other people discover
the video it'll help other people join
in our audience while we're lower
livestream here i see i
i am paying attention to what you guys
are commenting seems to me you're
philosophizing about uh
about issues related i'm i'm happy to
see that i have to have you join me here
uh it's fine if you're sitting on the
fence you're not sure if it's going to
be a good video you don't have to
thumbs down you don't have to hit thumbs
up but if you do hit thumbs up and you
change your mind later
you can you can click on thumbs down
instead you can you can change your mind
uh
as it goes maybe some of you guys
remember this one maybe so you don't
there were two women from eastern canada
one of whom
ended up on the payroll of plant-based
news
she was an alcoholic by her own
reckoning i remember she was trying to
get sober
she was already slim she had bad acne
she was okay looking
and there was another young woman from
eastern canada who was
really fat and really ugly and
when she was preparing this just shows
how much this really was an
investment it's not a scam it's not a
swindle right but this was an investment
they were taking a chance taking
a gamble this young woman had saved up
her money from doing joe jobs
she was fat she was ugly
and she committed to spending i think it
was a full year i think it was even more
than total she was there for like more
than one year
in chiang mai thailand she saved up her
money to this and what did she do first
this shows how premeditated the fame is
of course she started a youtube channel
talking about veganism how this is going
to transform her body and her parents
right and you know she went to toronto
and she interviewed vegan gains
and that was when the interviews being
games were hard to get he wasn't yet
the gregarious social creature so this
is this fat ugly
woman and she goes and she's being gains
and for her channel that's a relatively
large number of views that's a relative
that's a
kick starts her fame so you know she's
got stars in her eyes
she goes to chiang mai thailand she
never lost the weight
she never got in shape because the
fitness advice is terrible
the whole i mean sorry i've made several
videos about it was the blind leading
the blind
there were people who were already
beautiful and in good physical shape
before they showed up
but the people who joined hoping to lose
weight
like joe best joe best was just as fat
no to shape at the end as he was at the
beginning and there were so many of
these people
and there were people who gained weight
or people who became fat while they were
there on this particularly ridiculous
diet
i think despite the tropical heat
and being on a vegan diet in thailand
you managed to stay fat
or get fatter but of course it wasn't
just about body image
it was about money fame power respect
sex that young woman
i remember at the very end of her time
when she was giving up on
thailand and going back to canada she
announced that
you know she'd given up on various
streams and her youtube channel remained
in total obscurity whatever 200 views
here and there's a
channel a few people like me knew it
existed and i remembered her i
remembered her from that interview with
indians and i talked about vengeance too
i remember that
and uh she's an awful person too
i interact with all these people some
extent um
and you know when she was going back to
canada she said okay she'd given up on
well she didn't say that implicitly she
was admitting she'd given up on the
fitness and the vegan activism
but she decided that what she really
loves is acting and being an actor
and she was going to go into comedy as
if
as if her youtube channel had ever shown
any talent
or capacity to do comedy whatsoever okay
but my point is at every stage of that
woman's
story when she was saving up her money
and packing her bags interviewing vegan
gains
and then going to thailand and renting a
home in thailand for a year
and then spending a whole year trying to
get that
magic to rub off on you trying to get
that collaboration with freely and
durianrider
okay this
was a gamble this was an investment
people made all right and someone as
stupid and delusional and self-serving
as vegan foot
soldier can show up and walk through the
middle of it repeatedly he went back
there he made several traps
he can show up again and again and think
that this is all just
positivity and good will and love and
cooperation
right he thinks he just thinks it's
wonderful
and he can't see the desperation he
can't see
the struggle that these are people who
took their life
savings and put it on the line and
they're just
trying to make it and yes if durianrider
whips out his camera
and films through they're gonna smile
and they're gonna laugh and they're
gonna cheer and they're gonna show that
they're
so happy to ride their bicycle up that
hill for the 300th time
the same boring bike trail up the same
boring hill
on the outskirts of chiang mai they're
going to show that they're so
enthusiastic
about eating the third food in the
sub-basement of a
shopping mall in the suburbs of chiang
mai thailand i've been there i've
tasted the food i've seen the shopping
mall like
oh this is the most wonderful thing
we're all so jazzed we're all saving the
planet
dude it's about money these are people
who've invested
everything they had to invest they're
giving everything they have to give and
for them
the audition never ends every day they
upload to youtube
every day they post on facebook and
instagram every day they're trying to
spend time around durianrider or freely
or
any social media influencer who can
offer them a step up which included
me when i was there these people treated
me
like i was famous because when they're
looking at me they're looking at a meal
ticket
if they can get a hit video or a
controversial video talking to me
oh maybe this is the chance maybe this
is the opportunity
they are cloud chasing right
you know why why do you think the energy
was so different
in chiang mai foot soldier why do you
think it was so different from going to
a real
political animal rights conference from
going to a conference where people are
sitting down and
really talking about how do we influence
government policy
how do we change the world how do we
change people's diets
you know what i mean like why do you
think the energy
is so different that's why okay
it's about money and it's not just about
making money right it's about
recuperating
your loss because these people already
have invested
so much they've given everything they
had to give
okay they have given it their all
and almost every single one of them
failed
the failure rate is above 99
[Music]
durianrider was mean
to his ex-girlfriend in chiang mai
he had a short
chubby blonde ex-girlfriend
who was also much much younger than him
and he was mean to her
to my knowledge he didn't commit a crime
but he was coarse and vulgar and abusive
to her
and many other people in chiang mai saw
it directly they were in the room or
they were standing in front of the
restaurant or on the sidewalk next to
her
people recorded it there were audio
recordings there were some video
recordings
and he did unbelievably petty dishonest
and mean things there was a conflict
about a bike pump
about a bike wheel you remember for some
of you this is like a distant memory now
he accused her of having stolen his
computer
and he went to the police it's like the
level of mendacity
and just pettiness right
and you know she was she was shorter
than his other girlfriends and she was
chubbier than his other girlfriend hey
durianrider you chose her
you fell in love with her i mean you had
sex with her bro
but he was also very cruel to her about
that that she was too
fat to ever be famous the way his other
girlfriends several of them not all of
them but several other ones have become
famous
have gained a large audience you know
that she was not beautiful enough that
she was not
slim enough uh to become famous okay
it was really dark it was really
dishonest
it was really low it was really shameful
all right
that was at the stage when the only
people in chiang mai the only people who
are still supporting durianrider
still supporting freely and still
chasing
this dream were people who had tolerated
and witnessed so many lies
so much backstabbing and so much of what
could authentically and sincerely be
called
cancel culture coming from durianrider
and freely themselves durianrider
did not hesitate to lie to the police
durianrider did not hesitate to threaten
people with
prison and say he was going to go to the
place durianrider did not hesitate
to threaten to have people beaten up
stabbed
dragged off to the police put in a
prison cell durianrider did not hesitate
to make
allegations and accusations about people
that really could plausibly ruin their
lives forever make it impossible
for them to have a job and people saw
him
do this again and again and again
not just to me to boring people like
brianna jack fruits and
just stupid boring harmless people
that he created conflict with out of
nowhere and freely
was just as bad and sometimes
worse
what is the situation now in 2021
still to this day
foot soldier on his youtube channel is
blaming
me and holding up
dorian ryder and freely as the heroes
in this story he's claiming that
durianrider
and freely created a wonderful warm
positive encouraging movement in chiang
mai
and that a small number of people
including me
but especially me let's face it i mean
i really destroyed what freely in turn
writer were doing at that time
i had this really dramatic effect on
everything going on in that movement it
was impossible to ignore
people like briana jack fruits and had a
relatively trivial impact on it people
like joe best had some impact with
relatives
the single greatest breaking point was
my
intervention in chiang mai and what came
out of that
um and wright are threatening me with
violence with credible threats of
violence and my responding by saying
where you at let's let's make it happen
you want to have a boxing match
okay you want to go to the police
station okay you want to go to court
okay i'm down for it you want to have a
debate you want to talk about venus and
intellectual i'm down for that too
but where i stood up for him when every
other person before me
had run away and backed down and been
intimidated
and i stood up for myself okay that was
a huge turning point it was a huge
breaking point
foot soldier gives me no credit for that
the story
he is telling today is the same story
he's been telling since 2016 which is
that durianrider and freely were the
heroes
and that i am a lying
manipulative dishonest actor
who somehow killed the vibe
of what was this wonderful and uplifting
movement
[Music]
i have said before i'm going to say
again
i do not create youtube videos
for the stupidest 40 of people in my
audience
and i do not create youtube videos for
the stupidest
80 of like the potential
worldwide audience okay
i cannot and i will not make videos
that are for people like veganfoot
i am not able to come out here and reach
out to people
who want to be deluded and try to
entice them with the carrot of
the truth i cannot take a carrot
and stick approach to motivating you
into rejecting this [ __ ] that you
are
so committed to believing in and
propounding
i can only come out here and be a person
of integrity
myself i can't ask anyone else to have
integrity
for me i can't ask them to have
for their own sake i can't ask you
to care about the truth about the
difference between the truth and a lie
i can't ask you to care about the real
world consequences and outcomes
of the evil that men do right
i can't do that i can just show you i
can just demonstrate
what it is to be an intellectual in this
movement
what it is to be a person of integrity
to what it is to be
someone who refuses to lie even when it
would be
convenient for me and then i get to see
how other people react i get to see
who's the most intelligent 20 who's the
most principled
20 who's with me okay and you know what
it might not be 20 it might be 2
it might be that i'm addressing my
videos to a minority within a minority
within a minority that's absolutely tiny
and i will take my failure
over other people's success i
think that my failure
is worth more than tess begs success
i think that my failure is worth more
than maddie lindberner's success and i
think
that not just the future of the vegan
movement but the future of democracy
the future of politics is going to be
shaped by that
tiny minority of people who
really have integrity who really have
the right motivations
who really care and who are not just
trying to get rich
by posting pictures of their ass and
trying to sell you a cookbook
so that you too can stuff chickpeas
into a baked potato okay um
that's the principal decision that i
made
many years ago and coming on here on
youtube and you know what the tragedy is
you know what the strangest irony of all
is
you know who ultimately responded to
this was durianrider himself
not you foot soldier you never figured
it out you never turn around
not vegan eva not so many people who
still hate me this day
not paul beshear like not the leader of
direct action everywhere not wayne syong
not the leader of an honest for the
voiceless publisher
all those people are scumbags but the
guy i criticized most harshly and most
directly and the guy whose life i
destroyed
like let's be real the impact i had on
durianrider's life
was devastating okay
and i've even made videos in the past
saying that i felt bad about it i've
made videos saying
look i am going to be sad if this guy
ends up
in jail he wouldn't be in jail for the
rest of his life but he could be joe for
five years
i would feel bad about that like i'm
trying to do the right thing for the
vegan movement
but it's sad for me to see how this
whole guy's life's been ruined i had a
huge
impact on that guy's life but you know
what
there were false rape allegations made
against him there were several
false rumors made up against him and
even though it might be convenient for
me
if i were just motivated by drama and
fame for me to jump on that bandwagon
for me to join in the lie and defame it
announced them
i didn't i did the right thing because
it was the right thing to do with those
specific
rape allegations i had direct knowledge
that they were a lie i knew the people
involved they had talked to me they have
been videos
talking to the whole timeline it might
be convenient for me to just jump on
blackening his character
and of course i got a lot of backlash
but i have to say no
i know about some bad things durianrider
has done i've analyzed and discussed
them
i know about some bad health advice i
know about all kinds of bad things
but you know what i happen to know that
these allegations made up against him
are false and badly motivated here's
what i here's what i have to say
in effect in his defense and he saw that
and he cracked he realized
he admitted to himself that i had been
telling the truth
about everything all along not
just when it was convenient to me not
when it just
suited my short-term self-interest
okay and that's what i have to ask of
you
and you and you and i can ask it a foot
soldier but i'm never going to get it
from
because he's a person of zero integrity
all right each of us
has to examine the ledger of our own
moral conscience
and come to a conclusion am i going to
be a person of integrity
or not am i going to tell the truth when
it matters am i going to do the right
thing just because the right thing to do
or else what
what alternative have you really got
what is it that's been promised to you
if you give up
your integrity so i gotta tell you
something
you can sell out and the odds are
you'll never even get the little
pittance of money
and fame that people like test beg
managed to get out of this movement
you'll never get the little pittance
of money and fame that people like vegan
cheetah
and joe best and foot soldier himself
did
one of the reasons to be a person of
integrity and do the right thing
is just because the alternatives
although they may seem enticing
in the short term they will leave you
with nothing